Hello, thank you for the introduction.

/// Outline

Let's get started.
This talk is outlined as follows.
I talk about the motivation behind this research, p-wave superconductors, T-junction wires, and triangular structures.
We have two schematics to go over where I'll focus on Kitaev Triangle followed by Hollow triangles as platforms for hosting and rotating MZM.
Lastly, I'll show a quick network of triangles to braid 2 of 4 MZM.


/// Motivation 1

We know p-wave superconductors have half-quantum vortices which are theorized to host Majorana fermions at their cores. We also have literature that says if we braid these Majorana fermions they exhibit non-abelian statistics which would allow for quantum computation.
We have seen 1D p-wave superconductors host Majorana fermions on the end points in theory. We also have possibly seen them in real systems.
A decade ago it was proposed to use these wires in a quasi-1D T-junction setup. This engineering would allow us to potential braid Majorana fermions about the 3 points of a T-junction. However, we don't have a robust theory for braiding in 1D, only 2D. It is also challenging in practice to build, but still feasible and seriously pursued.

/// Transition
We wanted to expand on the idea of T-junction but go to 2D, which leads us to triangular islands.

/// Motivation 2
We can consider triangular islands as topologically similar to T-junctions.
An advantage this has is it's easier to grow these in lab.
We think this is a good platform for realizing a transition from a 2D to 1D topological superconductor.

/// Transition

/// Kitaev Triangle
Let's start with the general BdG Hamiltonian with a Peierls phase included on the hopping term.
If we start with a 3 fermionic site equilateral triangle, rewrite the Hamiltonian in Majorana fermion basis, and impose the Kitaev limit, ie t=delta>0 and mu=0, we can find three different combinations of phi values between each site that allows for MZM on two of the three vertices, as can be see here.
We then check to see if the MZM stay protected and how they move as we linearly interpolate between each set of phi's as seen in the following two graphs.
We see the MZM stay protected between each interpolation and how they move from one site to the next.
We calculated the many-body Berry phase of the evolution and found two degenerate many-body ground states acquire a pi/2 difference in their Berry phases as expected.

/// Transition
In this approach we presented an exactably solvable minimal model without the need of any topology or bulk-edge correspondence.
We now expand to larger systems to show in general MZM can be hosted and rotated via topology and bulk-edge correspondence.

/// Triangular Ribbon and Topological Phases
To Start let the Peierls phase be a line integral and consider a constant vector potential pointing in the y-axis on a hollow triangular island.
We consider the edges of a hollow triangle individually where we can treat them as infinite quasi-1D ribbons, as pictured at the bottom figure.
In doing so, we show that topological phase transitions can be induced by a vector potential field, in agreement with previous literature.
We show the topological phase diagrams for a 1D ribbon with W=1.
The Majorana number is not effected by the vector potential component normal to the ribbon length, nor does the sign of its component parallel to the ribbon length direction.
This lets us consider the top edges as having the same topology but different from the bottom edge when considering the field pointing in the y-axis.
We can see for combinations of A and mu where all edges are trivial, black, and all non-trivial, yellow.
The purple regions tell us the bottom edge is non-trivial and top edges trivial.
We would expect to see MZM there.
Let's look at an energy spectral flow for a fixed mu of 1.6 and varying A strength on a triangle of L=50, seen here.
Notice how for A values in the purple region we see zero energies in good agreement on this spectral flow.

/// Transition
I'll show MZM wavefuntions in the next slide.
We next want to see how rotating the vector potential field affects the topology of each edge.

/// Rotating MZM on a Triangular Chain (W=1)
Still considering a W=1 we compute the Majorana number for a given mu with varying A values and rotation of the fields angle on the bottom edge.
We know the vector potential of right and left edges of the triangle are out of phase with the bottom edge by pi/3 and -pi/3 respectively.
We then superimpose each edges phase to create the following phase diagram.
Like the previous phase diagram the color will indicate which edges are in what topology.
The color sequence from dark purple to orange-yellow represents a ccw crawl of topology.
Let's look at an energy spectral flow for the given green line on the phase diagram.
The following parameters were used to compute this spectral flow.
We can clearly see zero energy modes through the whole path, so let's go ahead and look at some wavefunctions.
At zero rotation, we are in the dark purple region, bottom edge is non-trivial, and we see MZM on the bottom two vertices as expected.
Pi/12, we are in purple region, meaning bottom and right edges are non-trivial, and thus top and bottom left vertices host MZM.
With the last two wavefunctions we can see their localizations match the topology in our phase diagram.

/// Transition
It is of further interest to see if we can recreate this with wider edges on a hollow triangle

/// Rotating MZM on a Hollow Triangle (W=3)
As before we create the phase diagram but now our ribbon has W=3.
Due to the Peierls phase accumulated by hopping that is not parallel with the finite-width ribbon edges, the vector potential has a more complex effect on the energy spectrum here than that for the W = 1 case.
We need to consider the band gap size in our topological phase diagram.
You can see from this band gap diagram there are regions with relatively clean band gaps that match the topological phase diagram, we just need to vary the A strength as well as phi.
The green line path was considered and we again look at its corresponding energy spectral flow, as seen here.
The following parameters were used to compute this spectral flow.
We can see zero energy modes throughout the green path in this spectral flow, so next we will look at the wavefunctions.
At zero rotation we see the bottom edge is non-trivial, represented by the dark-purple region, corresponding with MZM at the bottom vertices.
At pi/6 we see that bottom and left edge are non-trivial, and as expected the MZM are at the top and bottom right vertices.
As we continue to rotate we clearly see the MZM at their respective vertices and they rotate cw around the triangle in accordance with the topological phase diagram.

/// Transition
Now that we shown two different triangular schematics that can succesfully host and manipulate two MZM on a single island we next show how to braid two of four MZM in a triangular network.

/// Braiding Two of Four MZM
For the following braid we need only consider 4 triangular islands as shown in each still.
We tune the islands to initiate the first state using chemical potentials and vector potential fields pointing in the y-axis.
Next, adiabatically turn on the vector potential at phi=pi/6 for the middle island then at phi=0 for the top triangle.
Rotate the middle island's vector potential to pi/3, this forces the second MZM to swap via the top edges to the right island.
Finally, turn off the top island, followed by the middle island.
This demonstrates a braid of gamma 2 and gamma 3.

/// Summary
Now we'll summarize.
We've demonstrated that a Peierls phase allows for a minimal Kitaev triangle, reducing our fermionic sites down to 3, from 4 in a T-junction.
Use of a vector potential field and its rotation allows additional tunability of topology.
With both schematics we have shown MZM can be easily hosted and braided on a network of triangular islands.
Thank you, I'll now take any questions.

