Thank you for the introduction, Hua.

/// Presentation Objectives

Today's defense is broken into two parts.
Part I focuses on topological superconducting triangular islands where we build a new platform for topological quantum logic gates via triangular geometry and gauge potentials.
Part II covers Floquet quantum hall effect.
Here we will use inhomogeneous, circularly polarized light to induce quantum Hall effect and we will use floquet thoerem and a high frequency expansion to arrive out the effective Landau level like Hamiltonian.

/// Part I outline

Part I is outlined as follows.
Some background information on topological quantum computers and Majorana fermions.
Motivation will cover braiding and its relation to TQC and why moving from t-junctions to triangular islands is advantageous.
Then, I'll go over my results with two different models for hosting and braiding Majorana fermions.
Finally, I'll summarize part I and then move on to part II.


/// What does topology offer for quantum computing?
Quantum computers that we are using today have two prominent "local" errors or noise/perturbations.
They are classical error and phase error.
Classical flips a qubit from empty to occupied or vice versa.
Phase changes the sign of an occupied qubit.
These qubits do have many ways to reduce the error or to correct for the error to achieve more fault-tolerance.

Topology can offer baked in fault-tolerance.
In a topological quantum logic gate the qubit information is stored "non-locally", making the previous kinds of error unlikely to occur.
We will briefly go over why that is the case later in the talk.
So now we ask, what system allows for topological qubits?

/// Transition
Majorana fermions are a prime candidate for building topological quantum logic gates!

/// What are Majorana fermions?
Majorana fermions were theorized by Ettore Majorana (point at photo).
They are fermions which follow Fermi-Dirac statistics, Pauli exclusion principle, and have half-odd-integer spin.
Their best known quality is that their particle is also it's own antiparticle and they're neutral in charge.
As an elementary particle, the standard model allows for a neutrino to potentially be a Majorana fermion.
The Majorana project (point to picture) is one experiment testing for Majorana fermions and has shown negative results so far.
Now, mysteriously Majorana himself disappeared a few years after his publication.
So what I think happened is he ran into his doppelganger and annihilated himself!

/// Transition
So we haven't found Majorana fermions as elementary particles but we have some ideas on where they could be.

/// Where to find Majorana fermions?
Let's first remind ourselves that superconductors contain Cooper pairs, which are electrons paired together with opposite spin and momenta.
This is a ground state and has an excited state where the particles are dubbed Bogoliubov quasiparticles.
Here, an electron and hole with opposite momenta are paired.
This introduces particle-hole symmetry into the system and is also described by this equation (point at equation).
You can imagine the band structure in 1D with this (point at figure).
Now, in a non-trivial p-wave SC we can find zero-energy Bogoliubov quasiparticles which may be Majorana fermions.
Lastly, since we have particle-hole symmetry these zero-energy Majorana fermions are degenerate and in come pairs.

/// Transition
Now that we know where we can find Majorana fermions lets discuss the simplest system and its properties for hosting Majorana fermions.

/// Kitaev chain
So let's say we have a 1d spin-polarized pwave SC wire described in this figure at the top.
We represent the wire in lattice space where each blue oval is a complex fermion.
And within each fermionic site there are two majorana fermions.
Now, if we tune the SC to have no hopping or pairing and a nonzero chemical potential we find that each majorana fermions pairs with its same site partner.
Here each complex fermion is a linear superposition of its two majorana fermions, as described by this equation and by the dotted ovals around each pair of Majorana fermions.
We call this the trivial phase and no singular majorana fermions exist.

Now lets adjust some of the parameters.
Let hopping and pairing be equal and nonzero while chemical potential is zero.
We can see a change in how the majoranas are paired.
Namely, a majorana from one site pairs to the next site.
This leaves two unpaired majoranas at each end of the wire.
They don't appear in the Hamiltonian and this lets us include them as a zero-energy state.
We call this the non-trivial phase
Finally, we can define the linear superposition of these two majoranas as 'f' (point at equation).
This is the highly non-local fermion state, i.e.\ their data of the fermion is stored non-locally!
Since this information is stored "non-locally" the phase error is unlikely to occur.

/// Transition
Now the kitaev chain does have more parameter space to work with.
We can adjust the chemical potential for a range of values and the system remains in a non-trivial phase.
This depends on the band structure as we change the chemical potential.

/// Band gap and topological phase
Lets tune chemical potential just above 2t.
We see there is a band gap and that the hole and electron bands aren't mixed and the phase is trivial.
If we tune chemical potential to 2t, we see the band gap closes.
As we decrease below 2t we see the band gap reopens and now the hole and electron bands are mixed and this state is non-trivial.
So while in this non-trivial phase we can tune the band gap to be larger, which makes it more robust against local errors and have stronger topological protection.
To explain this in other words, the majoranas are separated by some length and protected by having a superconducting band gap material between them.
This can prevent classical error from occuring!
You'll notice I have these M's equal to plus or minus 1.
This tells us the Majorana number for the system and whether it is in a trivial or non-trivial phase, which I'll cover next.

/// Majorana number and bulk-edge correspondence
So instead of only analyzing band gaps we can calculate the Majorana number for a system.
All we have to do is transform our Hamiltonian to the majorana basis like so (point at equation) and then take the sign of its Pfaffian.
This will return a value of plus or minus 1.
In the case of the kitaev chain one finds that for mu outside 2t the system is in a trivial phase and when inside 2t it is non-trivial.
Now, one more thing to mention is bulk-edge correspondence.
When we put two different topological phases together majorana fermions will be hosted at their interface as seen here.
We will use the majorana number and bulk-edge correspondence to our advantage later including band gap calculations.

/// Transition
Before we proceed, one little note. It would be good to see if these exist in lab, yet we have not actually found any natural p-wave SCs experimentally, but we can build effective p-wave superconductors which I'll show now.

/// Experimental evidence of Majorana fermions I
Here is the first potential evidence for majorana fermions.
Laying a 1d spin orbit coupling wire on a s-wave SC and applying a in plane magnetic field can make an effective p-wave superconductor.
And we can see in the figure to the right at 0 energy and increasing magnetic field we get a signal in the di/dv curve which is indicative of majorana fermions.

/// Transition
We look at the next experiment

/// Experimental evidence of Majorana fermions II
This time a 1d ferromagnet is on a s-wave superconductor.
At zero energy we see another excitation in the di/dv curve at the end of the wire.

/// Now these two experiments only measured one end of the wire and remember majoranas come in pairs.

/// Experimental evidence of Majorana fermions II
We can see that is done here in this recent experiment.
At zero-energy there is an excitation at both ends of the wire.
Now in addition, this experiment also showed for small even number of lattice sites majorana fermions can exist, while small odd number of lattice sites no majorana exist.
So far I've shown this evidence but it is still up to debate whether they are majoranas or Andreev bound states. We need "braiding" to further distinguish the particles as majorana.

/// Transition
What is braiding? Well this is what we're gonna talk about next.

/// What makes Majorana fermions so cool?
Let's now consider a 2D p-wave SC.
Which exhibit half-quantum vortices.
Majorana fermions are located at the center of that vortex.
This is illustrated off to the right here (point at figure).
Rotating a MF around another the state accumulates a phase.
This results in the following exchange (reference MF sign flips).
This exchange can be represented by a unitary transform and we call this a braiding operation.
This braiding operation exhibits non-Abelian statistics.
This is valuable as it allows for a universal quantum computer!
Now, combined with MFs topological protection, we have a topological quantum computer.
A big advantage of a topological quantum computer due to it's fault-tolerance is it allows for fewer repeated calculations or qubits to perform the same calculation of a normal quantum computer.

/// Transition
With that I'll now show an example diagram of how a TQC would work with more qubits.

/// Braiding in a topological quantum computer
So first we initialize the quantum state or quantum memory.
As time moves forward we can braid two neighboring majoranas, which is this computation phase.
It is more apparent now why this is called braiding, like you would with hair or rope.
Once we've finished our braiding (or computation) we can readout the final quantum state via fusion.

Off to the side here (point) we can generalize the braiding transform of two neighboring MFs.
Then we can calculate the final quantum state by considering all braids in order.

/// Transition
Now that we know we can build a topological quantum computer out of MFs theoretically let's see how one could do it in practice.

/// t-junction as a quantum logic gate
We come back to our 1d wires and make t-junctions out of them.
It is seen that we can braid or rotate two MFs on a t-junction by adjusting the gate voltage of each leg.
This requires a redefinition of braiding for t-junctions with the following rules as can be seen.
You can then build a ladder junction of wires for topological quantum computing.

/// Transition
However, this is difficult to build, manipulate, and readout.
It is also not a smooth connection between 1D and 2D SCs.
Which leads us to our proposal.

/// Triangular structures for braiding
We can consider triangular islands as similar to T-junctions.
3 endpoints to 3 vertices.
It may be easier to build triangles with epitaxial growth as shown in the figure to the right than building 1d wires using lithography.
Then we can use lithography/ablation to remove the interiors.
We think this allows a smoother transition from a 2D to 1D topological superconductor.

/// Transition
With this switch in geometry we now move on to our two proposals

/// Two proposals
We show an exactly solvable minimal kitaev triangle is capable of hosting and braiding MFs.
This is a building block for the next proposal but can also realistically built.
It can allow for three fermionic sites compared to a minimal four in a t-junction.
Finally, each edge is controlled by peierls phase.

Our second proposal is to use a finite-size triangle with hollow interior using a uniform gauge potential and bulk-edge correspondence to host and braid MFs.


/// Transition

/// Kitaev Triangle
We start with our 3 lattice site model and apply the following gauge potential step function.
This can be included as a peierls phase in the tight-binding Hamiltonian.
In the kitaev limit we find that for the given phases between each lattice to be the following, this configuration localizes MZMs at sites 1 and 2.

/// Transition
From symmetry we can then easily find other phase configurations to host mzms on other combinations of vertices.
Let us see if this suffices for braiding?

/// Kitaev triangle braiding
So we use a closed parameter path linearly interpolated between the following sets of phases phi.
We see that the zero energy modes stay zero and no band gap closes throughout the braiding path.
This is good, our information isn't destroyed in the braiding process.
We can then see how the states evolves in the figure to the right.
As we move clockwise through the panels we see the mzms rotate ccw.
We also calculated the many-body Berry phase of the evolution and found two degenerate many-body ground states acquire a pi/2 difference in their Berry phases as expected.

/// Transition
In this approach we presented an exactably solvable minimal model without the need of any topology or bulk-edge correspondence.
We now expand to larger systems to show in general MZM can be hosted and rotated via topology and bulk-edge correspondence.

/// Triangular ribbon and topological phases
To start we have the phase defined here again.
And consider each of the edges of the triangle independently of each other.
We use this figure on the bottom left for each edge.
The gauge potential can be deflected at some angle var phi.
We first consider a gauge potential pointing in the y-axis.
Due to symmetry of the left and right edge, the gauge potential makes a 60 degree angle in both, so we will consider their edges together and call it the top edge.
We then compute the Majorana number for the bottom edge and top edges of a triangular chain, a width of 1.
Here is the topological phase diagram for mu vs A.
To read this, the colors indicate which edges are in what topology.
Black, top and bottom are trivial.
Yellow, top and bottom are non-trivial.
Purple, top is trivial and bottom is non-trivial.
So we expect to see mzms at the bottom vertices due to bulk edge-correspondence.
If we draw a line at mu = 1.6t in the diagram we can then plot the energy spectral flow here, and notice the zero energies line up with the purple regions of the topolgoical phase diagram.

/// Transition
Now that we can host mzms lets see if we can braid them by rotating the gauge potential.

/// Braiding MZMs on a triangular chain (W=1)
Still considering a triangular chain we compute the Majorana number for a constant mu with varying A values and rotation of the fields angle.
Like the previous phase diagram the color will indicate which edges are in what topology.
The color sequence from dark purple to orange-yellow represents a ccw crawl of topology.
Let's look at an energy spectral flow for the given green line on the phase diagram.
The following parameters were used to compute this spectral flow.
We can clearly see zero energy modes through the whole path, so let's go ahead and look at some wavefunctions.
At zero rotation, we are in the dark purple region, bottom edge is non-trivial, and we see MZM on the bottom two vertices as expected.
Pi/12, we are in purple region, meaning bottom and right edges are non-trivial, and thus top and bottom left vertices host MZM.
With the last two wavefunctions we can see their localizations match the topology in our phase diagram.

/// Transition
It is of further interest to see if we can recreate this with wider edges on a hollow triangle

/// Rotating MZM on a Hollow Triangle (W=3)
As before we create the phase diagram but now our ribbon has W=3.
The gauge potential has a more complex effect on the energy spectrum here than that for the W = 1 case.
We need to consider the band gap size in our topological phase diagram.
You can see from this band gap diagram there are regions with relatively clean band gaps that match the topological phase diagram, we just need to vary the A strength as well as phi.
The green line path was considered and we again look at its corresponding energy spectral flow, as seen here.
The following parameters were used to compute this spectral flow.
We can see zero energy modes throughout the green path in this spectral flow, so next we will look at the wavefunctions.
At zero rotation we see the bottom edge is non-trivial, represented by the dark-purple region, corresponding with MZM at the bottom vertices.
At pi/6 we see that bottom and left edge are non-trivial, and as expected the MZM are at the top and bottom right vertices.
As we continue to rotate we clearly see the MZM at their respective vertices and they rotate cw around the triangle in accordance with the topological phase diagram.

/// Transition
Now that we shown two different triangular schematics that can succesfully host and manipulate two MZM on a single island we next show how to braid two of four MZM in a triangular network.

/// Braiding Two of Four MZM
For the following braid we need only consider 4 triangular islands as shown.
We tune the islands to initiate the first state using chemical potentials and vector potential fields pointing in the y-axis.
Next, adiabatically turn on the vector potential at phi=pi/6 for the middle island then at phi=0 for the top triangle.
Rotate the middle island's vector potential to pi/3, this forces the second MZM to swap via the top edges to the right island.
Finally, turn off the top island, followed by the middle island.
This demonstrates a braid of gamma 2 and gamma 3.

/// Part I summary
Now we'll summarize.
We showed a minimal kitaev triangle can emerge as an effective low-energy theory using three fermionic sites and is sufficient for braiding.
Also, Hollow triangles maintain 1D bulk-edge correspondence under a gauge potential, the gauge potential strength and rotation allows for additional topological tunability, and also demonstrates braiding.
Finally, mzms can be hosted and braiding on a network of triangular islands.

/// Transition
We've shown gauge potentials as an effective tool for producing topological phenomena.
Next, we investigate topological phenomena in a nonequilibrium scheme using gauge potentials.

/// Floquet quantum Hall effect outline
I'll briefly go over Hall effects and Floquet topological insulators
Then touch on Floquet theorem and high frequency approximation.
Finally I'll go over the results for Dirac and 2DEG systems and summarize.

/// Quantum Hall effect at the Hall effect Zoo
We have many types of Hall effect in physics, here are the most well known ones (point at figure).
For this part of the talk we will mostly focus on quantum Hall effect in Floquet systems.
First lets define a few things.
Quantum Hall effect occurs when you apply a uniform magnetic field perpendicular to a 2d material.
The magnetic field produces a spatial dependence in the Hamiltonian and couples it to momentum.
Here is an example for a Dirac system.
This Hamiltonian produces flat band energies called Landau levels.
They represent the cyclotron orbits in QHE as can be seen in the figure here.
This is the 2DEG Hamiltonian and its Landau levels.
Both systems exhibit QHE which means they have quantized Hall conductance defined by this equation, n is the number of filled Landau levels below the Fermi level.

/// Transition
We've only scratched the surface at the Hall effect Zoo.
Let's check out one its new exhibits!

/// Floquet exhibit at the Hall effect Zoo
In the past 15 years there has been a push to study nonequilibrium systems using laser light that produce equilibrium physics.
This requires the use of Floquet theorem which I will explain in a few slides.
Each of these papers is describing different Hall effects and topological phenomena.

/// Transition
Now I want to show you literature that motivated us to explore Floquet QHE.

/// Floquet quantum anomalous Hall effect
This builds off of the photovoltaic hall effect in the last slide but by introducing a circularly polarized light on a dirac material we see it can open a band gap at the dirac point and there are edge states that live in between the gap.
Which introduces the topological phenomena quantum anomalous hall effect.
Instead of the magnetic field creating this gap it is the electric field component of the light!
This was finally measured in 2020 as seen in the figure to the right.
We can see as the electric field increases the band gap increases.
And in the band gaps we see nearly quantized Hall conductance.

All of these studies have only considered homogeneous components of light.
This motivates us to try using inhomogeneous components.
And recalling that QHE requires spatial dependence in the Hamiltonian, we think if we use an inhomogeneous, circularly polarized light we could induce QHE.

/// Transition
Before we can get to the results it is important to understand how one can use floquet theorem and derive and effective Hamiltonian under the influence of light.

/// Floqeut theorem
This is analogous to Bloch's theorem.
So for any Hamiltonian that has time translation symmetry we can define the following for floquet theorem (point to equations).
With the wavefunction defined we next define the our time fourier relations for the Hamiltonian, given here.
Now, if we plug our relations into the time-dependent Hamiltonian we can arrive after many steps to the quasienergy operator Q.

/// Transition
Q is an infinite quasienergy matrix!
How do we handle such a matrix?

/// Quasienergy operator and high-frequency expansion
We go ahead and write the quasienergy matrix Q as such.
If we consider that the energy of light if much larger than the off-diagonal components of the Q matrix one can use perturbative theory to arrive at the following Q matrix.
You'll notice that it becomes a diagonal matrix with copies of H_eff shifted by \hbar \omega.
We can ignore the higher and lower energy states and just look at H_eff alone.
I did say it used a perturbative theory, we can write the effective Hamiltonian as such (point at equations).
Notice, they are in powers of hbar omega

/// Transition
Since we now have a way to build an effective Hamiltonian from floquet theory lets move onto our system setup.

/// Inhomogeneous, circularly polarized light on 2D systems
We have a Dirac or 2DEG substrate with three incident lights.
One normally incident and the other two are oblique and mirrored to create a standing wave on the substrate.
There is also a high refractive index place atop the substrate, this is to help enhance the effective magnetic field.
The electric field component becomes the following.
a and b are integer and can be equal.
K is the wavenumber and can be determined by the following.

/// Transition
With our system setup we can now look at the results of a Dirac and 2deg system.

/// Dirac systems
We start with our Hamiltonian with a gauge potential and have the following electric field on the Dirac system.
Notice one light component has twice the energy of the other.
Then, using Floquet theory and HF approximation and in the limit that Kx is small, we arrive at the following effective Hamiltonian where the effective magnetic field is (point at equation).
This form is the same as the Landau level Hamiltonian for QHE for a Dirac system.
We expect it to have the same quantized Hall effect.
We then plot some expected effective magnetic field and quasienergy values for our system.
The energy of light on the x-axis is what is readily available in lab form the previous literature I showed earlier.
Describe the different lines.
This could then be directly compared to classic quantum Hall effect.

/// Transition
Now we move onto 2DEG

/// Dirac systems
We start with our Hamiltonian with a gauge potential and have the following electric field on the Dirac system.
Here the light has the same energy for both components of light.
Then, using Floquet theory and HF approximation and in the limit that Kx is small, we arrive at the following effective Hamiltonian where the effective magnetic field is (point at equation).
This form is the same as the Landau level Hamiltonian for QHE for a 2deg system.
We expect it to have the same quantized Hall effect.
We then plot some expected effective magnetic field and quasienergy values for our system.
The energy of light on the x-axis is what is readily available in lab form the previous literature I showed earlier.
Describe the different lines.
I have one last thing to note about these two systems and their energy.
The effective Hamiltonian describes Landau-level like energies, where electron orbits are not necessarily cyclotron orbits

/// Summary
So in conclusion.
I showed inhomogeneous, circularly polarized light induces QHE in both Dirac and 2DEG systems.
And showed you can enhance the effective magnetic field and energies by several parameters.

/// Acknowledgements
Finally, I'd like to thank the following: wing it.
